Sorai.org

BUSINESS PLAN
Mission
Creating sorai.org, our purpose is to provide an open, global, uncentralized network where people can connect 
to offer and request free help for any beneficial purpose.  We are encouraging people to help one another and 
the planet out of the goodness of their hearts, with no expectation of recompense.  We wish for this to foster 
community and unity in humanity and in the Earth.  We plan to provide an environment that is conducive to our 
goals, facilitating people's benevolent actions by providing a place where people can express their humanity, 
fostering the evolution of society and the world.

Proposed Activities that Will Accomplish the Mission
The website will offer people a global platform where they can initiate, communicate, and celebrate helping 
actions.  They will have opportunities to post their profiles, offers of help, requests for help (Wishes), 
and form teams and groups to work together for beneficial purposes.   Users can use a search engine to find 
help offers and requests of the nature of purposes and localities in which they wish to operate.  Listings 
will be integrated with an interactive map for searches.  The purposes for help will be organized by tagging 
them.  For example, if someone wants to help or receive help with tennis lessons, they can tag their offer 
or request with the tag “tennis” and anyone who searches for “tennis” and includes the requester’s location 
in the search will be presented with that listing among any others that satisfy the search.  Any listing can 
have multiple tags applied such that the searches function robustly.
There will be a feed of activity displayed on the site to encourage people's participation by showing the 
actions and accomplishments that are happening through this network.  There will also be a discussion forum 
in one section of the site.  Stories of successful helps(testimonials) can be gathered from users and displayed 
in one section.
We are fashioning an attractive, intuitive site which will be easy to use continually.


Beneficiaries of the Proposed Activities
As an uncentralized, open-ended help network, the site can host requests and offers for any benficial help to 
take place in the world.  Thus anyone and any positive purpose can benefit from it.  Some examples of potential 
help are putting on a free yoga class; and a student seeking help with understanding concepts from her studies 
and receiving a response from a person knowledgeable on the subject.  A friend of Justin’s in China and a 
professor from my alma mater, Ramapo College of New Jersey, have expressed interest in meeting one another out 
of their mutual interest in helping refugees.  People interacting for beneficial purposes naturally form special 
bonds of friendship and comradery, thus in a microcosmic or bottom-up way, creating unity and love within the 
myriad forms of diversity in the world.
That said, we can describe people to whom sorai.org appeals, and people coming to and using the site, according 
to demographics.
Target market: Who will benefit the most out of our service? 

Target market demographics- demographic characteristics include age, gender, marital status, family size, income, 
education level, etc.

Adults of all ages can be involved, while for youth involvement, we would need to find a safe and legal way for this 
to occur.  Or perhaps youth can be involved in an alternative form.  We wish to speak with Pro-Bono Partnership on 
this question.  Younger adults, such as people 18-40 years old, may be more open-minded and willing to get involved 
with this new type of activity, meet new people and be active in helping efforts.  They may also be more open to 
receive help from new people they meet on the site.

All genders appear equally likely to use the site.

People offering help may have more free time than most and thus could be more affluent.  Single people and married 
couples without children may also have more time to volunteer.   This might apply to help receivers too, since people 
who are single or married without kids may be more ready to get involved in activities in the community and meet new 
people.

People of any education level can be involved.  Those with skills gained in educational pursuits can apply those to 
the help they offer.

Target market psychograph - our audience's attitudes, beliefs, emotions, and values.  

Idealistic, benevolent, progressive/forward-thinking.  Open to trusting new people and interacting with them, helping 
people they are just meeting for the first time, and/or receiving help from people they are meeting for the first 
time, in both cases after getting to know one another a bit.

Target market behavior - determines how important brand or company loyalty is to our target market.

Since Sorai is the first site of its kind, its users would not need to choose from various sites at first.  However, 
AgileVentures, an organization doing digital coding for non-profits, produces Open Source code, meaning anyone can 
use and modify it for free.  We support this movement as it is aligned with Sorai’s mission of free help and sharing.  
Thus, other similar sites to sorai.org could spring up, and this could also help to expand the international 
participation in such activity.  If other similar sites create new niches related to the mission of sorai.org, 
users may need to choose in which site(s) to focus.


Communities Where the Activities will be Conducted
We aim for the site to be globally available as much as possible.  We hope to facilitate smooth and legal function 
around the world.  Action can take place among neighbors, for example helping with handywork.  People can get in 
touch internationally for language experience and friendship or to team up for social issues or environmental efforts.  
Residents of one of the fifty U.S. States could join together for a new farming or intentional community effort, or 
to plant trees.
Activities in any scale of community can be initiated.  The function of the site is to provide an environment where 
such opportunities are cultivated, where people can share and express talents, services, and skills.


Groups Addressing the Same Mission and How You Differ
There is a website called volunteermatch.com which helps organizations and potential volunteers for those organizations 
connect.  They utilize categories of activity and help people realize what opportunities to volunteer are out there.  
They provide a central hub where organizations know many hopeful volunteers will come, and volunteers can find a broad 
range and variety of organizations for the choices of where to apply their service.

Sorai.org is distinct from this in that it is centered around individuals and small groups rather than established 
organizations.  It can facilitate help in an expansive array of and concordance in purposes.  It is uncentralized, 
driven by the actions of its users with the aim of little interference from those running the site.  People post 
their own listings and decide how to label them.  They can begin to communicate via the site.  

Sources of Financial Support
We wish to be supported by donations, suggesting small ones such as $1/month from users.  While there is no obligation 
to donate in order to use all of the site, I feel many people will want to help this network continue to operate.  
People will have options to donate any amount as a one-time donation or a recurring donation.  The site aims to serve an expansive population and we wish for the single dollars from a significant proportion of the users to add up to what we will use to maintain and further the site as well as provide financial support to ourselves and those we work with in order to create it, such as accountants Wegner CPAs.  We are grateful for the opportunity to apply for volunteer legal service through Pro-Bono Partnership and web development through AgileVentures.
Using Search Engine Optimization, we can ensure that our site is placed in the highest possible positions in search results for relevant terms on major internet search engines, such as Google, Yahoo, Bing, etc., drawing more traffic, and more people who may become users and/or donors, to sorai.org.

One way that financial support from donors can be encouraged is through social media.  This is a large topic and here is information we have gathered and some tools we have identified so far:

Social Media Marketing Strategy:
1) Appreciation
A primary focus of our organization’s social media account should be on donor appreciation.  In the past, donors could only be acknowledged through offline means: a phone call, a thank-you letter, or recognition at a live event. Social media allows for high-impact, low-cost public recognition that, when deployed strategically, can create stickiness between our organization and its supporters while generating new exposure. It’s also an excellent way to shift away from broadcasting and to drive engagement.

By putting donors on display, we can allow them to publicize their philanthropy. Donors feel good when they support a cause they believe in, and they feel even better when everyone knows it. Tagging users in posts, photos, and tweets taps into social media users' natural inclinations toward exhibitionism. It allows showing our appreciation and increases the chances that they will share and retweet information about our organization.

2) Advocacy
Social media is an excellent outlet for sharing information that raises awareness and educates, outside of the context of fundraising. 

We can follow other groups that advocate for or conduct research into the topics that are relevant to our nonprofit and share their content. Getting involved with their content -- which can be done by engaging in discussions, asking questions, and sharing stories -- can go a long way in boosting awareness of our cause and organization.

We can also publish the knowledge that our team holds in the form of blog posts, videos, podcasts, and webinars, etc. and share it via social media.

3) Appeals
The more specific an appeal can be, the better.
For instance, a Tweet asking for donations of a specific amount to apply to specific purposes performs much better than a generic "please consider donating today." Donors like to know where their money is going, so it’s also a great idea to share stories of donation impact.

By leveraging influencers, we can increase our promotional reach exponentially. Include high-visibility donors in planning and deploying social media campaigns. Ask the team of sorai.org to include the organization in their profiles and bios to help make the brand part of our personal brand.


Some Tools For Social Media Scheduling/Analytics

The following tools cater for all the major social networks including Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn and Google + pages. Customer engagement and response also depends on the time of communication.

HootSuite

Hootsuite has the ability to save updates as templates so we are able to reduce the amount of time spent per update by just changing specific details rather than recreating an entire post each time.

The tool has a clever feature called Autoschedule, this chooses a time based on our previous social history that schedules your updates to give them the greatest chance of being seen. If we have multiple accounts set up on Hootsuite we can use this feature to avoid the same update appearing on all your accounts at once.

Buffer

The tool gives ready made updates that you are able to use on your own profiles that link to relevant industry news but sometimes the content may be irrelevant. The greatest part of buffer is the ability to set up a predetermined schedule for consistent promotion at optimum times. This works for all the social networks listed above. The tool also allows you easily distribute your content promotion across multiple accounts by simply clicking ‘additional’ on the additional profile accounts whilst writing out a post.

Quintly

Quintly analyzes how a Facebook page is performing, looking at how often posts are updated on Facebook including details about the hour, day and interactions.





Google Analytics

Google Analytics is a free Web analytics service that provides statistics and basic analytical tools for search engine optimization (SEO) and marketing purposes. The service is available to anyone with a Google account.

Features: 

Audience Data & Reporting-  Focuses on our target audience: the kinds of people they are, where they come from, how they find our content, and how loyal and engaged they are.

Social Reports- Social reports will show us the impact that social media has on our business goals and conversions. Integrated web and social data offers a holistic view of our content and community.

Map Overlay- With a clear map view and visitor stats broken down by continent, country and city, we can understand the real origins of our traffic and find the best places to invest for new opportunities.



Another source of financial support can come through a crowdfunding campaign.  Many charitable and goodwill causes are seeking and finding abundant support through the mass awareness and inviting, no-pressure atmosphere of donation that crowdfunding supports.

We can design and implement a campaign through a crowdfunding service like Kickstarter, Godfundme, or Indiegogo, in order to raise funds for initiating the project.  This could be phased more into the individual donations through sorai.org itself as time goes on.

It may be possible to secure government and/or private grants to our cause.  Government grant opportunities are searchable at www.grants.gov while one repository of private grant opportunities through foundations is at www.foundationcenter.org.










Potential Marketing Threats to a Non-Profit Sector Organization

Lack of Creative Abilities or Creative Force

Most non-profits do not have the creative abilities to design the collateral and other advertising materials needed to generate interest in their organization. Some employ contracted graphic designers and copywriters, on a limited or part time basis, but most do not have the overall creative direction needed to successfully launch a marketing campaign. Oftentimes, websites and other collateral materials do not have the visual appeal or calls to action to attract donors to their organization. This lack of creative abilities puts most non-profits at a tremendous competitive disadvantage when it comes to the promotion of their organization.

Response: We are currently speaking with a close friend of Justin’s who may wish to fashion creative content for Sorai.  Web Development experts can design an attractive, intuitive site and cooperate with artistic contributors.



Privacy

Issues surrounding the proper use, recording and distribution of user/donor information are a major concern for nonprofits.

Response: We intend to work with a web development firm which is sensitive to these issues and has experience developing and managing community websites with user accounts and interactions containing personal information.  We also will arrange for security monitoring and if necessary, action, to safeguard any harmful breach of information or service.


Honesty and Full Disclosure

Does our organization give potential benefactors enough information on our issues and mission to make informed decisions

Response:

We will form a public expression of our mission which is intelligent and attractive.  Users donating will know the vision and values sorai.org is founded on, the opportunities it presents, the activity happening on the site, and outcomes which have been realized through interactions facilitated by the platform of sorai.org.

We intend to continue cultivating awareness of user experience, sorai team and user community dynamics, trends in help activity and social interaction, issues, and concerns.

This is done through the team’s mindfulness during our time working with one another and individually to facilitate sorai.org.  During this work, we can open our awareness to the dynamics happening.  The Web Development team can also provide valuable insight.

We will be fully transparent about revenue and expenditures of the organization.  We may explain our choices in a periodical or blog.  



Proposed Three-Year Budget
					Current Year 		    Second Year 	      Third Year
						2015			    2016	                2017
	Revenues
Donations through sorai.org	      (pre-501c3)	 ½ year	   9,000                       33,600
        1500 people giving             2800 people   
 							           $1/mo for 6 mo              giving $1/mo
      if 501c3 in mid 2016               for 12 mo				           
Financial support from Justin		   3,580
        Derringer
	Previous Year’s Net Balance		       --			           0		 1,000	  
	Total Revenues			    3,580	           	   9,000		34,600	

	Expenses 
	Preliminary Design Work		          780		            --		     --
	Web Development		          Volunteer  -->                             0  	          	      0
	NJIncorporation/non-profit		        1,300		             --  		      --
		/501c3 fees
	Pro-Bono Partnership Service Fee	          500		             --		      --
Total Salaries: TBD			             0		      5,000?	         20,000?           
	Non-profit filings for U.S. States		--                              1500	    	3000
	Accounting				         1000		         1000		 1000
	Research into current dynamics       Free inquiry  ---------->             500		   500
	Total Expenses:			        3,580		         8,000	           25,000			               	
Net Balance	 				0		          1,000		10,100		      			    


Potential Board Members (at least three)
Justin Derringer, Jonathan Rucker, and Chris Kipkoech will be board members.  We each bring unique experiences and perspective while working well synergistically and sharing a creative, harmonious personal connection.  Justin has experience in volunteer work in medical and educational settings and earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in International Studies from Ramapo College of New Jersey.  Jonathan Rucker is skilled at community building and community organizing, having formed the Eastern Light Project, an endeavor aiming to create ecovillages, as well as founding Permajam, a network of music festivals to benefit permaculture and ecovillage enterprises.  Chris Kipkoech is very aware of the movements of world affairs and thinks in a highly creative manner in cooperation.  He was born in Kenya, lived most of his life in New Jersey, meeting Justin at Ramapo College, and recently began anew in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.

Staffing (employees and volunteers)
Thus far the people centrally involved include the three board members, Justin Derringer, Chris Kipkoech, and 
Jonathan Rucker, cooperating with Wegner CPAs, an accounting firm specializing in non-profits.  We are currently 
applying for pro-bono legal and web development cooperation with Pro-Bono Partnership and AgileVentures.   
There are also several other people volunteering their energy and time.  These include advisor Shane Aspinall, 
an inspirational visionary with a background in entrepreneurship, and Zhang Yuyang of China, who is volunteering
to present the project to the translation lab he has developed at Xian Fanyi University,  to translate Sorai to 
Chinese.  Xian Fanyi is a university dedicated to translation education.


Previous Experience of Applicant
Jonathan Rucker is a musician and studied recording arts, i.e. music recording.  He began large-scale grassroots 
organizing for community building and environmental awareness and action in Rockland County, New York.  Along with 
his team, he created the Eastern Light Project, which gave birth to a new eco-village in its former location of 
Pomona, New York.  Now Eastern Light Project is aiming to foster eco-villages and permaculture in a far broader range of locations.  Jonathan is currently developing and organizing his new creation, Permajam, a network of music festivals to benefit the above activities.
Chris Kipkoech brings diverse international experience, having lived in Kenya, the United States of America, and 
United Arab Emirates.  He also attended a business study trip to China during his time at Ramapo College of New Jersey, where he majored in Visual Communication Design.  He is skilled at social media marketing, which he facilitated during his internship at the publication Black Health Matters, and is a visionary, innovative thinker.  He applies this spark to his awareness and insight into world affairs, including the interaction of socioeconomics, ecological/environmental concerns, and politics.
Justin Derringer, with a deep philosophical sense, is experienced in volunteering, concordant with the mission of 
Sorai.org.  He has also spent his life with people of a wide variety of cultures and languages.  Justin majored in 
International Studies at Ramapo College of New Jersey and lived in Japan for one month.  He has volunteered at the 
Rockland County Department of Hospitals and One to One Learning, an organization which provides free English as a 
Second Language to immigrants and non-native English speakers in the Rockland County area.  He has studied Teaching 
English to Speakers of Other Languages, as well as Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine, for which he attended a study 
trip in Beijing, China.  He is continually pursuing and helping others explore health and Spiritual practices such 
as Qigong and Aikido.

All three core team members are enthusiastic in developing themselves spiritually and personally and facilitating 
the inspiration of Sorai.org to come to reality.

Your Activities to Partner with Another Organization with a Similar Mission
We intend to partner with AgileVentures.org, a website which connects volunteer software coders with benevolent technological initiatives to offer volunteers opportunities for software professionals to facilitate these initiatives towards their potential.  AgileVentures helps not-for-profit organizations design, create, and maintain robust software to accomplish their aspirations.
We feel that AgileVentures’ Spirit and values are aligned with those of sorai.org, in the sense of service for the good of the world.

In Gratitude,
Justin Derringer, Jonathan Rucker, and Chris Kipkoech
